updated Dashboard, Pivot EUD 20.1 (#107)
DevExpress/dotnet-eud: dashboard-for-desktop/articles/dashboard-designer/providing-data/binding-to-json-data-sources.md

---
# Binding to JSON Data Sources

The Dashboard Designer allows you to connect to the JSON data source that retrieves data from a Web-service endpoint, text file or a string in JSON format.

## Create a New Data Connection

Follow the steps below to connect to the JSON data source:

1. Click the **New Data Source** button in the **Data Source** ribbon tab.

    ![new-data-source](../../../images/new-data-source.png)

> 2. On the first page of the invoked **Data Source Wizard** dialog, select **JSON data** and click Next. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On the first page of the invoked **Data Source Wizard** dialog, select **JSON data** and click **Next**. 
```

    ![choose-data-source](../../../images/choose-data-source-2.png)

## Configure a New Data Connection
   
3.  On the next page, configure a new data connection. 

    ![specify-data-source](../../../images/specify3.png)
     
    ### JSON String

    Specify a string that contains JSON data.

    ![json_string](../../../images/json_string.png)

    Click **Next** to proceed to the [Select Data Fields](#select-data-fields) page.
       
    ### JSON File

    Specify the JSON data location to load content from the selected JSON file.

    ![json_file_location](../../../images/json_file_location.png)

    Click **Next** to proceed to the [Select Data Fields](#select-data-fields) page.

    ### Web Service Endpoint (URI)

    Specify a URL to a file in JSON format and the Web Service Endpoint's request parameters (username and password, HTTP headers, query parameters or URI path parameters).

    - A **path parameter** appends a path element to a JSON endpoint's Uri.

>     - A **query parameter** specifies a HTTP request parameter that is passed to a JSON endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A **query parameter** specifies the HTTP request parameter that is passed to a JSON endpoint.
```

>     - A **header** is a custom HTTP header of JSON endpoint requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A **header** is a custom HTTP header for JSON endpoint requests.
```

>     You can use expressions and dashboard parameters to set path parameters, query parameter values and headers. Click "+" icon to create a new parameter, enable the new parameter's **Expression** property and select **Expression Editor** from the **Value** property's drop-down list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can use expressions and dashboard parameters to set path parameters, query parameter values and headers. Click the "+" icon to create a new parameter, enable the new parameter's **Expression** property and select **Expression Editor** from the **Value** property's drop-down list.
```

    ![specify-data-source](../../../images/specify4.png)

>     Specify the expression in the invoked **Expression Editor**, and click **OK**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Specify the expression in the invoked **Expression Editor** and click **OK**. 
```

    ![](../../../images/winforms-dashboard-wizard-expression-editor.png)

    An expression can include [dashboard parameters](../data-analysis/using-dashboard-parameters.md). 

    > [!Tip]

>     > Refer to the [Create Parameters](../data-analysis/using-dashboard-parameters/creating-parameters.md) topic for more information how to create a dashboard parameter.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Refer to the following help topic for details on how to create a dashboard parameter: [Create Parameters](../data-analysis/using-dashboard-parameters/creating-parameters.md).  
```

    Select **Add Dashboard Parameter** from the **Value** property's drop-down list, configure the dashboard parameter in the invoked **Dashboard Parameter** dialog, and click **OK**.  

    ![](../../../images/winforms-dashboard-wizard-dashboard-parameter.png)

>     Path parameters and query parameters are included in endpoint requests in the same order as they are listed. Move a parameter up or down in the list to change its position in endpoint requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Path parameters and query parameters are included in endpoint requests in the order in which they are listed. Move a parameter up or down the list to change its position in an endpoint request.
```

>     The read-only **Resulting URI** field displays the resulting JSON URI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The read-only **Resulting URI** field displays the JSON URI.
```

Author: Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The read-only **Resulting URI** field displays the result: a JSON URI.
```

    ![](../../../images/winforms-dashboard-wizard-json-parameters-configured-uri.png)

>     Click **Next** to configure the basic HTTP authentication credentials and specify HTTP Header parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Click **Next** to configure basic HTTP authentication credentials and specify HTTP Header parameters. 
```

    ![](../../../images/winforms-dashboard-wizard-json-parameters-authentification.png)

    Click **Next** to proceed to the [Select Data Fields](#select-data-fields) page.
    
## Select Data Fields

> 4. The "Select data fields" page allows you to include / exclude data fields used in a JSON data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The "Select data fields" page allows you to include or exclude data fields used in a JSON data source.
```
